you
at birth our bodies are roughly 75%
water we remain mostly water for the
rest of our lives we cannot survive even
a week without fresh water there's no
life without it for ecosystems societies
and individuals so how much usable water
is there on earth most of the water on
Earth is ocean assaulting 97.5% to be
precise and the remaining 2.5% is
freshwater that little sliver of liquid
sustains human life on earth it
literally holds up civilizations 2.5
percent is a small proportion to be sure
and even that is broken down into
smaller parts surface water water in ice
caps and polar regions and groundwater
first surface water all the liquid water
above ground is surface water and it is
a tiny blip of an amount 0.3 percent of
all freshwater is surface water it may
seem counterintuitive but it accounts
for little streams all over the planet
all rivers including the Nile the Jordan
and the Mississippi and lakes large to
small like Victoria the Great Lakes and
Baikal second ice caps in polar regions
freeze up to 70% of the planet's fresh
water this water is significant but it
isn't available for human use in a
regular way finally nearly 30% of all
water on earth is groundwater as the
name suggests that's water in the ground
it can rest still and deep in huge
caverns or it can snuggle into little
crevices of rock and pebble the upshot
thank goodness for groundwater it's
invisible to us but it is much more
plentiful than surface water it is much
more reliable and easier to obtain than
frozen water without ground water our
societies would be parched so how are we
using that water as a result of
industrialization and population growth
demand for fresh water skyrocketed in
the last century where is all that water
going first we have to remember that
fresh water is a global concern but it
is always local context matters the
Sahara is not Seattle still some general
information can help us get a handle on
major trends who consumes the most fresh
water and what sectors consume the most
fresh water first who well the United
States consumes the most water
per capita of any country in the entire
world followed by parts of Europe and
large industrializing nations like China
but this doesn't tell us what water is
being used for so let's look at it
another way if we ask what kinds of uses
the water is going towards we see a
different picture agriculture accounts
for roughly 70% of global freshwater
consumption again remember that the
numbers vary by region but still it's a
staggering amount and this makes a
certain kind of sense we need to eat we
need water to grow food the bigger the
population the more food we need and the
wealthier we get the more meat we eat
and the more water is required to
produce our food furthermore 22% of all
freshwater worldwide goes to industrial
uses this includes the production of
electricity the extraction of fossil
fuels and the manufacturing of all
manner of goods from microchips to paper
to blimps 70% to agriculture 22% to
industrial uses what's left 8%
all those domestic uses cooking cleaning
bathing drinking it's a drop in the
bucket of overall water use
you